Okay, everyone. We are back here again
with another episode of Financial
Engineering, how to actually make money.
We're here with Jordy and Connor in
London and Chattanooga, Tennessee. Um,
so first thing like I know a lot of
people have been following our
portfolio. One thing I kind of want to
bring up is how like these aren't set it
and forget it strategies. They're always
adapting and we want to talk about the
concepts of what we're doing. basically
how to fish not just giving you a fish.
So the first thing that I wanted to
cover is kind of the concept of video
risk and systematic risk and then
overarchingly what risk varity is. Um do
you guys have any idea what those
concepts are being what we've learned
thus far with um you know the portfolio
series type examples so you guys don't
have to or you can ask some questions in
general if you sound
>> I don't want to cheat and say because
Mark did just explain this to me so for
the audience sake I think we could let
let Mark explain the the bare basics.
>> Yeah. So basically there's two types of
risk present. One is called systematic
risk and systematic risk is the risk of
the overall market. So basically it's
can also be called beta. We've talked
about this as well is basically the
volatile of your asset. So if you are in
spy you have a beta of one and you're
100% in systematic risk. If you had a
spy covered call ETF, you would be like
85% systematic risk because you're
selling a $15 call, which would
basically uh reduce that. And then if
you're in long only assets like private
equity or venture capital, you're
basically 2x
uh beta or systematic risk. Then the
other risk is what's called
idiosyncratic risk and it means risk
risk remaining or unexplained risk. So
gold and uh spy can move in the same
direction. Um but if something is 0.1
correlated that means 90% of the time
the moves are unexplained by one
another. So if they're now 20% explained
by one another which always happens
correlations are always fluctuating. Now
you have twice that systematic risk
tasty because it's all relating to
oneself and these environments change
and that's why back tests are not
perfect and it is our general framework.
So
>> so hold on back. So does the risk come
from the correlation itself or it's I
mean or is it too simplistic?
>> Uh so yeah we would call that
clustering. So generally in times of
distress um all long assets because
there's just not as much liquidity in
the system can cluster in terms of
volatility or correlation. Um so
generally when we look at the risk we
say what's the correlation for a 10 the
first 10% draw down and when the VIX is
below 25 and then what's the correlation
for a 25% uh a 20% draw down or when the
VIX is above 25. So an example of this
would be managed futures. So managed
futures generally are negatively
correlated, but the first 10% move down
since most of them trend fall and it
takes a month for them to respond,
they're pretty correlated to the market
because they're generally long assets.
But since they can go short assets in a
downturn, they have very low correlation
over time. So I think the most
simplistic way to kind of uh show this
to begin is we can look at a 60% stock
portfolio 40% uh bond portfolio. So that
would basically be comprised of the A
index which is the Barlay's US bond
index 60% of our allocation and then
40%.
So when we're looking at portfolio
visualizer we see the correlation and we
see that the correlation is 0.9.
So basically we have 90% systematic risk
to the market. However, when we go down
to here, um, this risk here under
basically the systematic risk, it's only
saying that even though we have a 60%
allocation to bonds in agg 22% of our
systematic risk is coming from this. So,
you can see that even though bonds are
uncorrelatedish in most environments, if
we go to here, we can look at
correlation.
Now, with 100% bonds, we're only 02
correlated. So the the the con the
concept I kind of want to bring up here
is
your waitings are one factor of your
risk budget because that's your
allocation. But you need to understand
if you have a volatile asset like the
S&P and then a nonvolatile asset like
bonds you would generally have to size
up the unvolatile asset to
have the same risk budget or experience
a low correlation. So if we were to do
that, we have SD here. Let's go 15% spy
and 85% bonds isn't going to have a high
return but I'm trying to show you how
the correlation is now 6 and then if we
look at the risk budget we are you know
now getting most of our risk for bonds
does that kind of make sense
>> so could we could we get the return and
apply how correlated it is to get the
risk is that the formula of the of the
systematic risk or not really or is it
too simplistic
>> um what do you mean by that can I ask
that question
Yeah. So if you're saying that uh you
know one is more correlated than the
other and that's how it zigs and its
could we apply the the like the the
weight of the portfolio to the
correlation to get that systematic risk
or that's you know
>> that's the the concept I'm trying to
bring here is people are very afraid of
the word leverage or
>> whatever that is. Yeah. So it is less
risky to take leverage because the thing
is no one wants to be 85% bonds and 15%
stock because you're going to make
money. However, that bond allocation is
a ballast to offset draw down. So if we
wanted to maintain a 40% exposure to
stocks, we may have to buy a treasury
future that'll give us 120% exposure in
bonds. So we could roughly get equal uh
risk from each component. But when I
talk about this, we have the systematic
risk which is what's related to the
market and then we have the um
idiosyncratic risk. So you have to think
of it kind of like a teeter totter like
there's no direct formula because the
correlation change of time but this is
kind of a guiding light to us where we
want to think how much risk do we want
in a particular asset and we also need
to consider is this going to be related
to the rest of our portfolio. So, we
would like to weight something heavier
that is not related to the rest of our
portfolio. So, like we can take more
risk in an asset that isn't related to
the S&P or the S&P and private equity or
whatever because all those are going to
cluster at the same time. I've got a any
questions I have an example that I think
>> yeah there on the correlation aspect of
it. I'm understanding the risk aspect of
it as well and the waiting on that. So,
for this portfolio, where are we trying
to get at on the correlation? How
correlated do we want to be to the
market but also while still being
uncorrelated? I know obviously we don't
want to be one because then you're gonna
>> Yeah. So I would generally say what I
like to be for what I would recommend
for this type of portfolio is like I
want to be 6 correlated to the market
when the market's going up and I want to
be three correlated to the market when
the market's going down. And this should
this should somewhat make sense because
as asset prices appreciate there's
demand for commodities. So, you're most
likely long commodities, which is fine,
or gold's going up because there's some
type of inflation. Whereas, when assets
go down, if you can short things in
managed futures or you have that
anti-baile ETF, you're now able to take
some of um that idios that risk away.
>> So, you're not talking about
>> Yeah. So, you're not talking about the
buffer ETF that you cap the downside.
You're talking about correlation on the
up move and correlation on the down
move, right? Correct. So I'm
>> Yeah. So like we want to look at how our
assets are correlated
the first 10% of the S&P going down and
when the VIX is like below 25 and then
we want to look how those are correlated
in a crisis. So the term that a lot of
people finance is crisis alpha. So like
hedge funds often underperform the
market and then they're referred to as
crisis alpha because when there's a
crisis they're uncorrelated and end up
making money which is kind of like the
ballast for your uh thing. And and maybe
to simplify this is I want to go back to
portfolio visualizer and to not make
these concepts as scary. So like this is
kind of our portfolio here that we've
been working on which is a uh it's gold
spy with managed futures a buffer ETF
and then that long short equity which is
TQQQ and BTA. So when we look at this
portfolio we want to look at our
measures. So the first measure is what
is our correlation? So it's pretty high.
>> Yeah
>> we like this is just something that's
guiding us. So like I said 06 we
probably want to get this down. Then
this risk here this is kind of telling
us what is our systematic risk for these
assets. So you can see that we have a
lot in spy. You can see that we
obviously have a lot in TQQQ and then
you can see that BTA is negative because
it's a hedge basically.
>> Yeah. And it says in the name antibeta
which is really true which is very cool.
So this this makes sense and that's a
good pick by Jordy is like we're we're
we are using finance terms but I don't
want them to be scary. And then Connor,
if you see something with a 1.33% risk
even though we're 25% allocated to us,
what do you think the correlation or
beta is of this hashtag?
>> Very very low. I mean
>> perfect.
>> Yeah. But we can't just size up DBMF to
85%
because so we want all these risks to
look something similar. It just doesn't
make sense. So this is our systematic
risk. Then if we
>> just click for me making so the
correlation is tied with risk high if it
has high risk it has high correlation
low risk low correlation basically
>> but but the kind of the concept here is
in portfolio visualizer when you look at
this tab this is systematic risk. It
doesn't say that, but it's comparing it
to our benchmark. And our benchmark is
SPY.
>> Perfect.
>> Um, then if we go down here
uh to the individual assets,
this shows what our standard deviation
is. So a standard deviation of 11% means
that the asset will move up or down 11%
either way over the course of the year
roughly. So here, even though DBMF was
only 1% of our risk budget, this
standard deviation kind of shows our
idiosyncratic risk budget. So you can
see here that a waiting to DBMF and our
waiting to spy roughly has the same
idiosyncratic budget if we take out the
overall market risk. Does that make
sense?
>> Yeah.
>> And then as a quiz, Connor or Jory can
answer this. We see that we have an
allocation to the buffer ETF but it has
a lower standard deviation. What do you
think that is in relation to uh
idiosyncratic or systematic risk? Does
it have less systematic risk, less
idiosyncratic risk or less of both?
>> Do you guys know? I can give you the
answer if you don't know. You can take
yes.
>> Hold on. Let's let's let's take it one
step at a time. One question at a time.
Don't don't throw all the questions at
once. So
>> yeah,
>> systematic if it's a buffer ETF should
be
uh
it should be systematic. So we're
talking about the market it's a buffer
ETF. It should be highly correlated.
Therefore should be uh lower systematic
risk. Is that right?
>> Yeah. Yep. And then again to get you
that hint we know where we look at even
though we have a 10% allocation to it.
our risk budget is 11% where when we
have a 25% allocation this is more than
two and a half times more.
>> I see that.
>> So the buffer ETF less systematic risk.
>> Okay, does that make sense?
>> Yep.
>> Yes.
>> And then if we go back down to here, I'm
going to ask Connor this question. Does
the buffer ETF have less idiosyncratic
risk than SPY? Uh yes
>> because you have that buffer or that
protected put. So
>> that's what I was going to ask is is the
reason why is because of the is because
it's capped. If not it'd be the same
amount of risk. Right.
>> Correct.
>> Now if we look at the managed futures
ETF DBMF does DBMF have very much
systematic risk?
>> Let me see.
>> Meaning risk related to the market. um
not a lot of risk related
>> it has no risk related to the market.
Now does DBMF have systematic risk? I
mean uh idiosyncratic risk.
>> Let me see.
>> Yes,
>> there go.
>> Oh, here we are. So you can see here
that
>> DVMF has almost the same idiosyncratic
risk. So the asset moves up and down a
lot just as much as SI. It just moves at
a different time. Makes sense.
>> Oh, so it zigs when exact. All right.
So, I was going to say why is that? But
it I mean it's just whatever it is. I
mean that can move just as much as SPY
or S&P is.
>> So we're talking correlation,
we're talking total return, we're
talking standard deviation, we so this
filter thing. So it it's we we are
putting it all together. Okay.
>> Correct. And again, if I've lost people,
I think this is the easiest way to look
at it. These are the correlations
related to basically each other and or
spy. So if we go back to kindergarten,
do we think red means correlated or
uncorrelated?
>> Uncorrelated.
>> Okay. And then do we think white or I'd
say red means inversely correlated?
Because
>> yeah, inverse. Then it would be
uncorrelated be high or low when it's
>> yeah I'd like if portfolio visualizer
would have used green but do we think
blue means correlated inversely
correlated or uncorrelated
>> could all say together correlated
>> exactly
>> and then what do we think white means
>> not correlated yeah
>> yeah not correlated and then yellow
means
>> middle ground yeah
>> pretty yeah the in between inversely
correlated and uncorrelated.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, I think that was a lot. We'll
go into uh another concept next week,
but I want to open it up to you guys now
that I threw it to you. Like, I know I
said a lot, but you guys job slowing me
down. And I want the pictures to kind of
be like this isn't that scary in your
tool belt to look at it. Like if you
were allocated from a financial adviser
and you just typed in a ticker on
portfolio visualizer, which is free
portfolio visualizer, just by looking at
the colors, you could go, "Oo, cavemen
think I lose money in down market." You
know what I'm saying? Like like that's
just kind of the sniff check I want to
people because we have some volatility
in the market and when someone says,
"Oh, in 40 years like you're going to be
fine." And it's like, well, I don't want
to be down for 40 years, so I want to
pay a little bit attention to what my
neutral is so I don't have to go through
a decade of pain.
>> Yeah.
>> But the problem I think a lot of a lot
of people have a problem with the market
has been on such a bull run that nobody
cares about this. People will start
people will get back to this video when
things are going to go down, you know.
So because now you buy SPY, you cannot
lose, you know, just 38% 28%.
just
>> you guys Tanner will link it in the
description, but you can check out our
video when we showed you about DBMF and
managed futures and managed futures is
up like 7% this year as everything else
in town. And guess what? They're
probably long oil, which looks like it
may be may be a good position here.
>> I was looking up the return stack
portfolio that you're showing me and
they're up they beat the market last
year. They're like 21%. The market was
17%. So like
>> Yeah. Um, I mean it's it's it's good
>> and and psychologically what I want
people to do when you have a good
portfolio and like you know this is kind
of what we're seeking to do with
multiacet approaches is you can be
talking to your neighbor Connor mowing
your lawn and they go isn't it crazy gas
is $9 a gallon and then you're like yeah
I've been long managed futures since
November I'm up you know like you
Conor because he's long, you know.
>> Exactly. And so that's what my question
was just going to be like is your con
your overarching concept about how to
weight your what you're allocating to
each um ticker to understand the risk to
understand the correlation to the market
and then going you know comparing the
systematic risk to the other risk as
well like is that the overarching theme
like we're understanding our sizing of
our portfolio here?
>> Yeah. So the theme is I want you guys to
understand
what is going on and why stuff is
happening like correlations are always
going to change. Um you know like oil
got crushed in 2020 because there was no
demand for oil whereas like now people
still have to go to work and you know if
the Middle East isn't producing oil
that's going to make oil prices go up.
So, we can't just say, "Hey, we're going
to stay in this forever." But we need to
be aware of what's going on and where
our our exposure is to certain things.
And then when we're monitoring this, we
can have an understanding because
whatever your divers so like most people
will get into whatever their model
portfolio is or diversification and then
they'll just sit in it for 30 years. And
it's like it's true. If you go 6040
stock bonds, it does okay. If you do 60%
stocks, 20% bonds, and 20% gold, even
though gold and bonds have the same
return over time, you end up doing
better. But when you're 60% uh stocks,
20% gold, and 20% bonds, you never felt
what the benefit was over your lifetime
of being 90% in stocks and 10% in bonds
when there was a bull market. and you
never felt what the benefit was like
when everything was going down and you
were 60% managed futures and 10% stock
and then the rest in bonds. So the key
is that you're going to be positioned
well in all environments which creates
an evergreen type structure. Like if you
go to San Francisco or New York, those
are the trees that have seasons. That's
the market, that's the business, the
lead.
>> But that means that you'll have to keep
changing the allocation then, right?
Which is
>> yes.
>> Yeah. in certain things like we showed
you like a buffer ETF is a way to hold
spy and not have to change as much if
you hold gold covered calls
because we spoke about in the other
episode it's a way to hold gold without
having to leave it so much and then if
we have managed futures it naturally the
little product trend follows whatever is
moving so you never have to do anything
with managed futures you may want to
allocate a little more to it over time
but always kind of going to get you in
something. So, what I suggest most
people do, and this is what we'll do
next time, is we'll look at kind of half
of our portfolio in a like diversified
hold for a decade thing that we're not
going to touch a Warren Buffett bot.
We're going to look into it. If you
could only hold 10 assets for the next
decade, those are 10 assets. Then the
other half we're going to think okay
what are the signals that we will
potentially take or inform our market
basis to have a 90% allocation of stock
10% allocation of bonds because we don't
want to lose out on the bet on humanity
of holding assets. We just want a
smoother ride on the bet on humanity of
holding long assets and then we also
want something that
>> makes us money
>> in any environment. So when gas prices
go up, Connor's still going to the
national park with his family because
he's long oil, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> So you're we're doing two transitions
here. The first transition that we had
to do was from going from one asset or
one trade to a portfolio. And now the
second transition is we're going from a
static portfolio to a to a dynamic
portfolio based on
>> so there's going to be two 50% of
portfolio is going to be this neutral
buy and hold
better diversification for example a lot
of people are 6040 we may be 60% stocks
20% bonds 20% gold it'll obviously be a
little more complex of that but that's
kind of one thing we're doing and then
the other half will basically
dynamically
use signals Yes, but the point is like
comparing it to zero DDT at the
beginning I think everybody looks for
the trade that's going to print money
and then you realize that that's not
true. You have to look for the the
portfolio that's going to make money
>> exactly the portfolio the portfolio
construction and the and then the third
the third iteration that we all have to
do Connor me and everybody who's kind of
successful let's put it that way it's
the sizing and that's what you're going
at. So that is the the the because you
know of course we're not talking about
people sitting in cash everybody
watching and all of us we know that
that's not nothing but so it's the trade
the portfolio and then sizing and sizing
implies that the portfolio is somewhat
dynamic. You can say 50/50, you can say
whatever it is, but it's not one. You
could design a portfolio before you die,
but you know, like for the rest of your
days, but you're implying that there's a
way to also manage the portfolio in a
way that it's dynamic that it's
depending on what's happening, right? Is
that is that a fair?
>> So, so it's like we're running a
business. So, like, yeah, you have to
first know your clients and you have to
know what their problems are. And then
once you've solved a lot of those
problems, you may need to hire an
employee to help you accommodate more of
those clients and you need to know how
to communicate with your employee and
what are their roadblocks. So this is
essentially what we're trying to do with
our portfolio is we're first going to
get to know the individual assets, which
is what we've been doing for the past
several weeks. Gold, how do we implement
that? Well, a buffer ETF that helps with
SD, how do we implement that? Well, what
are our managed features? How do we
implement that? Well, now that we have
these employees or clients, we need to
say, you know, which clients do we need
to look after and then which ones can
just kind of roll on in perpetuity for
how to do it. So now this is kind of
what we're combining. And the thing is
like I don't want to make this complex
because everyone is somewhere on the
spectrum. like I may be over here where
like I originally started with one zero
DT trade then I had 30 zerod trades then
I did this whole hedge fund and zerodt
then after that I was like okay I'm
going to hold some long assets in
multiple strategies then I'm going to go
to more things so like we're all on a
level of figuring this out it's just a
question of with you guys instead of me
trying to explain this where it may be
too complex is I want to go step by step
so each of your guys's experience will
help other people learn and That's kind
of why it comes into our homework
assignment for next week and it's
basically going to be, you know, we have
a little hint with the initial portfolio
visualizer is you guys will at least
speak about each asset that's in that
and why we chose this house for it. And
there's no right or wrong answer. It's
just that you can speak to it and we'll
obviously improve and go from there. But
we just want to make sure before we move
on, we understand basically all of our
clients and or employees that we're
working in our tool belt.
>> Makes perfect sense. So you got to be
able to speak to the amounts of like why
you chose this, why did it make this
system out of risk go to this risk and
like you have to be able to speak down
that line of numbers that we just spoke
about.
>> Yeah. And it can be as simple as like
what does what do the colors look like?
>> If I can look at those colors and I was
like yeah, Connor's portfolio looks
good. uh like we're we're pretty well
done, you know.
>> All right.
>> Because it just like that's the initial
sniff test, you know, and then we can
progress there. So, we still have a
little more time, but do you guys have
any questions kind of knowing that
whereas we'll just kind of explain each
of the assets and how we think they fit
and look at how
>> No, I I just have a comment that this is
mind-blowing because it forces you to
change the mindset from again what's
going to make me the more money as a
what do I buy and finding the secret
stock that nobody knows about. it shifts
to something that's stable stable that's
long-term that makes sense that is
quantifiable. That's the same thing with
a portfolio of zero DTS or whatever
shortly trades. It makes 100% sense, you
know, and then
>> I feel like it's fun for a guy like me
to you feel like you're still beating
the market and it it actually I don't
have to be a quant to be able to beat
the market. You know what I mean? Like
you feel like the average Joe could go
in and make his portfolio, understand
what they're doing without having to do
day trading because just we just know
the level that it takes to be a
successful day trader, you know.
>> Yeah. in kind of coming back to this is
like we're trying to use the leverage of
putting our work in to understand what
we're invested in and then having a
bunch of free time to go work. Like
that's the leverage we're going after.
We're not trying to be the best prop
trader and get funded by whatever or
like get in front of Bitcoin or
something on Twitter to where we can
make money. It's like this is a way that
you can still go on vacation with your
family when airplane tickets are twice
as expensive because you're long oil and
you don't need to worry about basically
what you're doing every day and how
you're going about it. And also it's
probably going to save you money on
taxes too. Like we'll get into that
component of how it could save money on
taxes. So, it's like you have your
sanity to be productive in all other
aspects of your life, and you're not
worried about this one long bet that
your house is going up, your job's going
to get a bigger bonus, and your stocks
>> 100%. And you're not having to watch the
market all day long because this is
pretty much an evergreen platform, too.
>> Yeah, it's it's that tree. I mean, there
still are forest fires, but
>> a lot of evergreen trees or redwoods,
they can resist those forest fires. So
this this isn't some holy grail that is
going to make money on every three-month
period. It's always going to outperform
the market. But over a long period of
time when forest fires come, we stand up
and we're always able to basically have
our leaves out if there's some debt.
That's kind of more of the thought
process.
>> Yeah. Like less stress, we can leave to
trade another day. Long-term positive
growth. I mean, it has all the good
things. Yeah, that's I it makes a lot of
sense. I I really like this.
>> And the thing is it's like I didn't even
notice. So, so it's like Connor talked
about it. Managed futures all last year
did like one or two%. So, it was almost
unnoticeable to SPY if you held SPY and
managed futures and this year all this
conflicts come up and then like out of
nowhere everyone's a draw down and you
are because of managed futures and it's
like you're like whoa that is great. Um,
so that's kind of the concept but I'll
leave it for there. If you guys have
anything you want us to cover on the
next episode, put it in the comments and
we will see you guys on the next one.